The presidency has released the statement below over the abduction of students from a secondary school in Katsina on Friday night. Gunmen on Friday attacked the Government Boys Science Secondary School in the Kankara Local Government Area of Katsina State and abducted many students. Residents and the police said the gunmen had earlier attacked Kankara town, injuring many residents but were later repelled by the security forces. The militants, in large numbers, on motorbikes, invaded the school’s premises around 11: 00 p.m. Friday night, shooting to scare and kill. The Katsina State Government has announced the closure of all public schools in response. Mr Buhari, who is currently in Katsina on what the presidency calls a “private visit”, said “the military, supported by air power has located the bandits’ enclave at Zango/Paula forest in Kankara and there have been exchange of fire in an ongoing operation.” Read his full statement below: PRESIDENT BUHARI STRONGLY CONDEMNS BANDITS’ ATTACK ON KATSINA SCHOOL President Muhammadu Buhari on Saturday strongly condemned the bandits’ attack at the Government Science Secondary School, Kankara in Katsina State, charging the army and the police to go after the attackers to ensure that no student gets missing or harmed. The President urged the school authorities to carry out an audit of the population of the students following shootings in and around the school that sent hundreds of them fleeing and scrambling over perimeter walls. Parents who rushed to the school and removed their children and wards were also required to notify the school and police authorities in order to have a full account of the school population. “I strongly condemn the cowardly bandits’ attack on innocent children at the Science School, Kankara. Our prayers are with the families of the students, the school authorities and the injured,” said President Buhari while pledging to continue to support the police and military struggle against terrorists and bandits. In the latest briefing received by the President from Governor Aminu Bello Masari, with whom he has been in touch, and the Army Chief of Staff, General Tukur Buratai, the military, supported by air power has located the bandits’ enclave at Zango/Paula forest in Kankara and there have been exchange of fire in an ongoing operation. Police said so far, there has not been reported any student casualty. The President has directed the reinforcement of security of all schools in line with the safe schools policy of the administration. Garba Shehu Senior Special Assistant to the President (Media & Publicity) December 12, 2020  